Team Name: Divide and Heap(Conquer)
Team Member: Ryan Ransaw
Project Title: The Dynamics of Heap and Quick Sorting Algorithms With Large Datasets. 

Problem: Having the ability to sort large datasets will always be need to a prevalent feature within software. As we know many sorting algorithms either trade the low cost of needed memory space for speed and lesser complexity, or give up high speed and suffer from greater complexity to reduce required memory space. Though in the case of the Heap and Quick Sort algorithms, both have the same average time complexity despite Quick sort having a greater space complexity. This project will help determine the better of these two sorting algorithms, despite them growing at the same rate asymptotically when regarding time complexity.  

Motivation: Since sorting algorithms are a main stay in large database and search engine technologies, choosing the most efficient sort and searching algorithm can drastically improve performance. Furthermore with the two algorithms that are the subject of this project, it will determine whether or not having the same asymptotic average time complexity but different space complexities can drastically effect performance or not. 

Features: This project will randomly generate and load data sets of varying proportions to compare the efficiency of both sorting algorithms on said data sets. The data sets that will be used will be of sizes 1000, 10,000, 100,000, and 500,000. This will allow us and the user of the program to take note on if a certain algorithm may be more efficient in smaller data sets but lags behind when faced with larger ones.The algorithms in question that will be implemented are a heap sort and quick sort algorithm. The metrics that will be used to compare the complexities of these algorithms will be execution time, as well as a count for total comparisons and swaps. With a menu based interface in the console, these metrics will be displayed to the user to showcase a clear comparison and further allow the user to conduct more tests with larger data sets if needed. 

Data: In the case of this project, we will have a data set similar to that of a database of commercial products. This data set will be a dynamically allocated List which will contain Product objects with randomly generated values for the data. As for this data types held within this Product class, it will contain an integer value for it’s ID number and quantity, and a double for the price per unit. These objects will be stored in a dynamic array or list as stated before. 

Tools: For this project, the C# programming language will be used, because of such, Visual Studio will mainly be used for the programing portion of the work done whereas github will be used for filesharing and a form of documentation of work done. Furthermore for the dynamic array and its randomization of data values for the objects within the array, and to use the stopwatch feature in C# to track the metric of time, the respective standard c# libraries for such will be used. 

Strategy: Both the Heap Sort and Quick Sort sorting algorithms will be implemented into the program code. The Quick Sort algorithm taking the median value from the data set (Front, Back, and Middle values)  and using that as its pivot point. This data that will be stored and the data that will be generated will be placed into a dynamically sized array. Furthermore the metric data can be stored into a metric object that has completion time, swaps, and comparisons as the data held within the objects. As for the menu, a standard switch case will be used with a while loop. And as for the generated dataset, I will use C# Random class library to randomly generate the data set within the code. 
